README.md, before:

# epilot Journey SDK

epilot Journey SDK is a tool that allows developers to create custom blocks for the epilot Journey Builder.

Be aware that some of the features are still experimental.

<details>
  <summary>Terminology</summary>
  <p>
    <strong>Journey Builder:</strong> is a tool for building flexible journeys in the 360 epilot platform.
  </p>
  <p>
    <strong>The configuring user:</strong> is a user of epilot 360 that has access to the tool Journey Builder.
  </p>
</details>

## Custom Block for epilot Journeys
> This feature is an experimental one. Therefore to have it available to your organisation, please contact epilot to enable it.
### What are "Custom" blocks?
epilot through the 360 tool Journey Builder providers numerous amounts of block which are easy to be used and provides a UI method to configure them. Despite that, the business case could be too special or too complex for a generic solution and a custom solution might be needed.

epilot Journey allows developers to develop a custom solution that could be integrated to the journey as a block. This block will be able to receive configuration like any other block, in addition it will be able to communicate back its data to the journey

### How to use the custom block?
As a configuring user, please head to the [Journey Builder](https://portal.epilot.cloud/app/entity/journey), and open the journey.
In the desired step, add a new custom block (as in the following GIF).

<img src="./doc_assets/adding-custom-block.gif" width="300px" />

### How do custom blocks work?
In a general perspective, the epilot journey allows the user to add a wrapper block to it, this wrapper block will load a JS bundle which contains a web component. The wrapper block will ensure that the bundle will be able to receive configuration, data, error messages and sent data back.

Since the custom block wrapper is a journey block, the configuring user will be able to apply display logics like any block.

#### How does the custom block communicate with the journey?
The custom block wrapper expects the implementation to be a standard web component. The wrapper will pass multiple props to the component. They are documented as typescript type as the following:
```typescript
type ControlledCustomBlockProps<T> = {
  setValue: React.Dispatch<T>
  value: T
  errors?: string
  required?: boolean
  args?: string
}
```

### How to configure the custom block?

Since the custom block is going to be implemented as a web component. You must set the tag name and point to the bundle URL. The URL can be a local URL during development or a deployed bundle.

<img src="./doc_assets/config-custom-block.png" width="300px" />

**Tip:** make sure to use an SSL secure bundle for production.

### How to pass extra arguments to the custom block?
It is mainly used in some cases, when the implementation of the block might need variables to be used that the configuration user would like to control (such as an API token, a subscription id, extra URLs... etc.)
In the block configurator, the configuring user can pass the data as key & value pairs in the UI. This is done by clicking on the button "Add an Option"

<img src="./doc_assets/adding-args.png" width="300px" />

Commit message:

added a link to the examples

README.md, after:

# epilot Journey SDK

epilot Journey SDK is a tool that allows developers to create Custom Blocks for the epilot Journey Builder.

Be aware that some of the features are still experimental.

<details>
  <summary>Terminology</summary>
  <p>
    <strong>Journey Builder:</strong> is a tool for building flexible Journeys in the 360 epilot platform.
  </p>
  <p>
    <strong>The configuring user:</strong> is a user of epilot 360 that has access to the tool Journey Builder.
  </p>
</details>

## Custom Block for epilot Journeys
> This feature is an experimental one. Therefore to have it available to your organisation, please contact epilot to enable it.

This document is intended to be a guide for configuring users to configure Custom Blocks in the epilot Journey Builder.

Apart from this document, examples are available in the [examples](./examples) folder. They include how to develop a web component and how to use it in the Journey Builder.
* [Simple Hello World](./examples/hello-world-block)

### What are "Custom" blocks?
epilot through the 360 tool Journey Builder providers numerous amounts of block which are easy to be used and provides a UI method to configure them. Despite that, the business case could be too special or too complex for a generic solution and a custom solution might be needed.

epilot Journey allows developers to develop a custom solution that could be integrated to the Journey as a block. This block will be able to receive configuration like any other block, in addition it will be able to communicate back its data to the Journey



### How to use the Custom Block?
As a configuring user, please head to the [Journey Builder](https://portal.epilot.cloud/app/entity/journey), and open the Journey.
In the desired step, add a new custom block (as in the following GIF).

<img src="./doc_assets/adding-custom-block.gif" width="300px" />

### How do Custom Blocks work?
In a general perspective, the epilot Journey allows the user to add a wrapper block to it, this wrapper block will load a JS bundle which contains a web component. The wrapper block will ensure that the bundle will be able to receive configuration, data, error messages and sent data back.

Since the Custom Block wrapper is a Journey block, the configuring user will be able to apply display logics like any block.

#### How does the Custom Block communicate with the Journey?
The Custom Block wrapper expects the implementation to be a standard web component. The wrapper will pass multiple props to the component. They are documented as typescript type as the following:
```typescript
type ControlledCustomBlockProps<T> = {
  setValue: React.Dispatch<T>
  value: T
  errors?: string
  required?: boolean
  args?: string
}
```

### How to configure the Custom Block?

Since the Custom Block is going to be implemented as a web component. You must set the tag name and point to the bundle URL. The URL can be a local URL during development or a deployed bundle.

<img src="./doc_assets/config-custom-block.png" width="300px" />

**Tip:** make sure to use an SSL secure bundle for production.

### How to pass extra arguments to the Custom Block?
It is mainly used in some cases, when the implementation of the block might need variables to be used that the configuration user would like to control (such as an API token, a subscription id, extra URLs... etc.)
In the block configurator, the configuring user can pass the data as key & value pairs in the UI. This is done by clicking on the button "Add an Option"

<img src="./doc_assets/adding-args.png" width="300px" />
